--Parv: Industrialization of Spectral/HP Element Method for Incompressible, Transitional Flow Around Formula 1 Geometries

This study applies the high-fidelity spectral/hp element method using the open-source Nektar++ framework to simulate the unsteady, transitional flow around complex 3D geometries representative of the Formula 1 industry. This study extends the work on a previously investigated industrial benchmark, the Imperial Front Wing (IFW), derived from the McLaren MP4-17D race car's front wing and endplate design. A combined configuration of the IFW with a wheel in contact with a moving ground in a rolling state is considered. The rolling wheel combined with the IFW (IFW-W) provides the most realistic industrial configuration to date. The spectral/hp element method is applied to this test case to solve the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations, simulating the flow at a Reynolds number of $mathbf{2.2 imes 10^5}$. Time-averaged results from the unsteady simulation are compared to experimental Particle Image Velocimetry (PIV) data to assess the model's fidelity, offering insights into its reliability for accurately representing key flow characteristics. This research addresses the challenges and requisites associated with achieving diverse levels of flow resolution using the under-resolved DNS/implicit LES approach.




--Alex: Comparing Efficient Implicit Time-Stepping Techniques for Highly Resolved Simulations Using Industrial Geometries

High-fidelity modeling approaches such as LES are increasingly used for analyzing complex, unsteady flow phenomena in industrial geometries at high Reynolds numbers. However, their computational cost prevents widespread adoption as a standard tool in developing aerodynamic devices. One potential solution is to increase the simulation time step, even beyond the CFL limit, when employing implicit schemes to discretize the equations. Two implicit time-stepping techniques for solving the incompressible Navier-Stokes equations in a segregated manner using the high-order Spectral h/p element method were examined in this study. Our objectives were to explore the stability margins for each scheme, assess their impact on accuracy, and evaluate the achieved speed-up. The Imperial Front Wing (IFW) industrial benchmark was considered for these purposes. Both schemes successfully allowed for an increased simulation timestep, resulting in a considerable reduction in the total computation time. As the timestep increased, the flow accuracy deviated more from the reference simulation. This work outlines the characteristics of each scheme, compares them with existing literature on canonical flows, and highlights the trade-offs between accuracy and computational efficiency.
